# Template Customize

All right. So, everything's working just fine. But if you go to /register, or any of the routes that FOSUserBundle gives us they're awful looking, and of course they're awful looking. FOSUserBundle has no idea how to style our pages, so let's fix this.

First of all, down in the web depot toolbar you can find the render template spot, click that. Because this is going to show you all the temples that have been rendered on this page, which is going to be a really good map that tells us which templates we should override from the bundle. First one that I'm interested in is this layout.html.twig and it's inside of the FOSUserBundle.

I'm going to move over to my editor, hit shift shift to look for layout.html.twig. You get the one that's inside of the user bundle. When you load any page, any of the templates from FOSUserBundle, they all extend this layout which is obviously not correct, we want them to extend our, our base layout. So, quite literally, on the page, when you see little Logged in as admin/Log out link, that's actually coming from our base layout. What we effectively want to do is replace this base layout with our base layout, and the way you do that is by overriding this layout and pointing it to our base layout. It's a two step process. First, whenever you want to override a template from a bundle you're going to go to app/resources and then create a new directory with the same name as the bundle, so FOSUserBundle, and then you're going to follow the same path as that. So, since this lives in the ...

Inside there, we'll create a views directory. Now, what you'll do is you'll look at where the template lives, in this case it lives directly in the views of the bundle, it doesn't live in the subdirectory. So that means right inside of our views we can create layout.html.twig. Then we're going to extend our normal base.html.twig. Here's the tricky part ... if you do a shift shift again it will [open 00:02:40] up a template called register.html.twig, which is the actual template rendered on this one page, it looks like this. You can see that inside of the base template from the bundle ... there is an fos_user_content block and all of the children templates that's actually what they populate.

So, check this out, inside of our overridden layout we can say, "block body," because that's the name of the block that we have in our base layout. Inside of there, we can actually just print block fos_user_content endblock. Now the children templates still extend layout but we're overriding it, taking the child content from them and putting it into our block body. We're effectively taking the children templates content and putting it in the block we actually want it. Just by doing this, if you refresh the page, you're going to see a much better output. Still not styled perfectly, but this is actually starting to make sense. Of course, if you want to you you can even put a little bit of ... markup around them ... which helps a little bit more.

That's the most important thing to do, you need to override the base layout, it solves most of your issues. Now this template is still not perfect, it doesn't even have an h1 on it that says, "Register". So in reality, in addition to overwriting the base layout, you're really going to need to overwrite every single template from FOSUserBundle. Which is basically, registration for all of the different pages that you're actually using.

So, for this page. Again, down here, if we click on the templates we can see that registered at html.twig is the name of this template, which is what we have opened right here. Now, every single template inside of FOSUserBundle immediately includes another file, by the same name _content.html.twig. Let me show you what I mean, I'm going to go up here and double click this word views, so that it will move my tree over here into FOSUserBundle. So you see inside Registration, there is a register and a register_content. In Profile there's edit and edit_content, show and show_content. In most cases what you actually want to override is this register_content.html.twig. Why do they separate into two things? There's no important reason, just so that you don't have to worry about extending anything inside of your template, you can just do the raw content.

If you look at register_content.html.twig it's just the meat of the template. So, I'm going to copy its contents then go back in to app/resources/views, create a registration directory. I'm doing that because this template lives in a registration directory. Then create register_content.html.twig, paste that in there, let's just add a couple of styles to our button and we'll add an h1 that says, "Register Aquanauts!" Perfect.

Just by doing that, our template gets a little bit better. So just make sure that you go to all the different pages: registration, log in, reset password, that you're using from the bundle and override the templates so that it looks the way you want it to.

Right now if we login, let's log in this. If you create a new user: aquanaut2@gmail.com, aquanaut2, turtles, turtles. You see this flash message: The user has been created successfully. How do we change that? Because that's probably being set inside the controller for the bundle. Anytime you see any strings coming from the bundle they're going to the translator, which is awesome because we can use the translator to actually change the text to what we want.

So back in my [petri 00:07:34] storm, I'm going to close all the templates I have open. Then I'll do shift shift and look for FOSUserBundle.en.yml. See, whenever FOSUserBundle translates something, it translates it through a domain called FOSUserBundle, which isn't important it just means that when you translate strings you'll need to put them in a file called FOSUserBundle.language.yml.

Now if we search for this: The user has been created successfully. The user has been, perfect. We can find under registration, flash, user_created, there's the string. You can see how easy it is to override all of the text from the bundle.

So, inside of app/Resources/translations we're going to create our own FOSUserBundle.en.yml. Then we're going to do the same keys: registration.flash, user_created. Registration, flash, user_created. What we're going to say?, "Welcome! Now let's do some science!" And that should override this one. The first time you add a new translation file, you're going to need to go and run bin/console cache:clear. It's a rare case where in the dev environment you need to clear the cache, otherwise [Symphony 00:09:08] won't see that new translation file.

Cool. Then go back, go back to /register ... It's time to do aquanaut3@gmail.com, turtles ... And Boom! Let's do some science. Got it. Next, let's customize the form itself.
